---
layout: post
title: "Goals"
date: 2020-05-12
categories: programming planning bible-blast
summary: A recap of what happened since my last post, and new goals
---

## Bible Blast
So I had this idea that I would blog about this project as I built it, but that didn't happen.

Fortunately, I'm better at shipping code than blog posts, and there is indeed a working instance of my project out there that real humans are really using to administer their church youth group curriculum.

I'm planning to do one more blog post that covers the finished product, but first I'm going to set some goals for myself and *this* (blog) project.

## Planning/Goals
Goals are important, and small goals are generally more valuable than big ones at the individual level.
 They tend to be more attainable, because they're naturally more comprehensible. If you know exactly what you need to do, you'll know what "done" looks like, and you'll be able to decide how long you'll give yourself. Writing this out is almost embarrassing because of how obvious it seems, but it's so easy to get carried away with big ideas or mired down in indecision.

It's still important to have "higher order" goals, but as you move into higher planning orbits, the goals need to become less concrete. You'll necessarily be forecasting farther out in time, and you can be certain that things will change along the way. I decided one high-level goal for the year will be to spend some time at least once a month working on this site. I think it will force me to be more mindful of how I use my time, and help me realize whether I really want to have a personal website, or I just feel like I ought to be the sort of person who blogs about building software.

As a short term goal, I intend to set up a demo environment of the Bible Blast app so people can poke around rather than just [look at the code on GitHub](https://github.com/ppalms/bible-blast). I'm going to work in one week cycles, so these will be my Sprint 1 goals:
- Put a demo environment of Bible Blast into production by next Monday (5/18)
- Write another blog post with a brief walkthrough
