---
layout: post
title: "Introduction"
date: 2018-07-18
categories: programming personal
---
My name is Patrick, and I'm starting this blog to record my experiences as I set out to learn new skills as a software developer. My goal is to expand my knowledge from desktop app development to modern web development and devops. I want to cultivate the skills needed to create quality web apps and deploy them using current technologies; essentially, I want to be self-sufficient to a degree that will allow me to get a quality SaaS product off the ground.

I have about seven years of professional experience in enterprise application development, but this experience almost exclusively involved maintaining and enhancing legacy products using outdated tools and frameworks.

I've been daydreaming about creating a SaaS product that could provide enough income for me to be self-employed, but I knew that I had a lot of catching up to do on web development (my only professional experience has been working on an ASP.NET WebForms solution). As I started hitting walls and realizing the scope of my ignorance, I found myself struggling to stay motivated. One recurring problem has been the sheer number of ways to solve any given problem. There is a seemingly endless combination of technology stacks for writing a web app, and numerous design patterns, front-end frameworks, libraries, and utilities. Any time I hit a major stumbling block, there was the temptation to step too far back and wonder if I should just throw away my solution and invest a bunch of time in learning Framework X that Self-Styled Web Guru Person From Medium insists is the best thing since sliced bread.

I've been interested in web development since I was in middle school, but I fell prey to the belief that "real" programming was only open to people who never got an A- and could solve complex calculus problems in their heads. I created a bunch of random Geocities pages and wrote some simple JavaScript, but never seriously pursued software development as a craft.